```md
---
layout: default
title: Homework
nav_exclude: true
---
```

**Academic Methodologies**
  
Maria Jende, 05/19/2026

<br>

### Task 04.01 - Search Strategy

*Describe your strategy to find and collect relevant literature for your topic(s).*

*Submission: Add references and a description of their relevance. You must use whole sentences.*

I mainly use Google Search as well as Google Scholar for research by trying different keyword combinations, ranging from broader searches (e.g. “AI content watermarking”) to more specifically formulated requests (e.g. “removing GenAI image watermark ACM journal”). Also, looking at the cited resources of papers helped me track down other helpful resources.  
Depending on the topic and the number of available online results, I also search library catalogues for printed literature. However, in the case of AI image watermarking, I found plenty of relevant resources online. To narrow down the number of search results, I often paid attention to the publication year, which I find especially important for technology-related papers.
I then skim through the results by reading titles, abstracts, tables of contents etc. and collected all links that seem potentially useful in a bookmark folder in my browser. After that, I selected the most promising sources for closer reading, downloaded them, and saved them in a dedicated folder on my computer.

### Task 04.02 - Literature Collection

*Name related work for your paper. List at least three, ideally academic, publications that you are planning to reference in your paper. Describe briefly, how the publications are related and relevant.*

*Submission: Add references and a description of their relevance. You must use whole sentences.*

+ Jie Cao, Qi Li, Zelin Zhang, Jianbing Ni, and Rongxing Lu. 2026. Secure and Robust Watermarking for AI-
generated Images: A Comprehensive Survey. 1, 1 (March 2026), 35 pages.  
[https://doi.org/10.1145/nnnnnnn.nnnnnnn](https://arxiv.org/html/2411.18479v1)

+ Xuandong Zhao, Sam Gunn, Miranda Christ, Jaiden Fairoze, Andres Fabrega, Nicholas Carlini, Sanjam Garg, Sanghyun Hong, Milad Nasr, Florian Tramer, Somesh Jha, Lei Li, Yu-Xiang Wang, and Dawn Song. 2025. SoK: Watermarking for AI-Generated Content. arXiv preprint. https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2411.18479

+ Huixin Luo, Li Li, and Juncheng Li. 2025. Digital Watermarking Technology for AI-Generated Images: A Survey. Mathematics 13, 4 (February 2025), 651. 
https://doi.org/10.3390/math13040651

    &rarr; I chose these three recent papers because they provide a thorough overview of the current state of the art and the historical development of watermarking in AI-generated content. They synthesize a wide range of sources and have been refined after publication, which adds to their reliability. Although they are relatively general, I consider them a good entry point into the topic. Additionally, I plan to compare them in terms of where they converge and diverge, as well as to identify additional perspectives each one offers.

<br>

+ Zhengyuan Jiang, Moyang Guo, Yuepeng Hu, Yupu Wang, and Neil Zhenqiang Gong. 2026. Watermark-based Attribution of AI-Generated Content. In Proceedings of the 14th International Conference on Learning Representations (ICLR 2026). arXiv preprint.  
https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2404.04254

    &rarr; This paper is more narrow, looking at using watermarks not just to detect AI-generated content, but to trace it back to the individual user who produced it. It opens up an important and largely unaddressed question in this area of research.

<br>

+ Zhao, Xuandong, Kexun Zhang, Zihao Su, Saastha Vasan, Ilya Grishchenko, Christopher Kruegel, Giovanni Vigna, Yu-Xiang Wang, and Lei Li. 2024. Invisible Image Watermarks Are Provably Removable Using Generative AI. In Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems 37 (NeurIPS 2024). Neural Information Processing Systems Foundation, Inc.  
https://doi.org/10.52202/079017-0276

    &rarr; I see this as an important paper addressing a highly relevant topic: the actual robustness of watermarking methods. Even the title already highlights several concerning findings that warrant careful consideration in my research.

<br>

+ Yunzhuo Chen, Jordan Vice, Naveed Akhtar, Nur Al Hasan Haldar, and Ajmal Mian. 2025. Image Watermarking of Generative Diffusion Models. arXiv preprint.  
https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2502.10465

    &rarr; This paper is interesting because it proposes a practical method for watermarking content generated by diffusion models. Looking at concrete methods may help identify what is actually required for models to be robust.

---

<br>

Note: In general, I found that a literature review might be somewhat redundant, since several strong ones already exist. Instead, this research raised a new question: Why is watermarking not widely applied yet? Why is it so difficult to implement? And why does it appear to lack sufficient robustness?